$Id: ass2.txt 2 2007-07-19 13:00:48Z pdezwart $

Preamble:

	This security policy is for the UOW IEEE Society which so far, does not
have one.

	See http://ieee.uow.edu.au/ for information.

	The short and dirty description is that there is a Lab where people can
use existing terminals, hook up their own mobile terminal or log in remotely
to do stuff which is academically related.

	I am currently a member of the IEEE society. However, I am not
currently the SysAdmin or on the Board of Directors.

Policy:

	The IEEE Society of the University of Wollongong exists to provide it's
members with a stable laboratory environment to perform academic work. Thus, the
laboratory facilities should be protected to ensure that the above condition is
met.

	Members are responsible for their own attitudes and work, as to not
restrict any persons fair use of the laboratory facilities. Members should take
a zero tolerance approach to any persons who attempt to contravene this policy.

	It is the responsibility of the Laboratory Resident Administrative
Technician (RAT), to oversee the menial administrative tasks of the
laboratory. The Lab RATs have the power to temporarily suspend members from
accessing the lab facilities if the members act inappropriately, as deemed by
the Lab RAT in accordance to this policy.

	Lab RATs are required to inform their superior, the Unanimously
Brought-forward Engineering Ragamuffin RAT (UBER-RAT) of any event that may
compromise the stability and security of the lab facility. It is then up to the
UBER-RAT to discern an appropriate course of action to allow Club members to
carry out their academic work without interference.

	The UBER-RAT has the responsibility of formulating guidelines and
laboratory standards to ensure that the Lab RATs can carry out their duties.
The UBER-RAT has the authority of inflicting Rapidly Activated Bludgeoning
of the Iconoclast Egghead Simpleton (RABIES), upon transgressors, granted 
by the Board of Directors when the UBER-RAT is inducted.

References:

"Practical UNIX & Internet Security, 2nd Edition", Simson Garfinkel & Gene
	Spafford, 2nd Edition April 1996, O'Reilly & Associates.

"IEEE Network Administration Guide",
	http://ieee.uow.edu.au/documents/Lab_Admin/Lab_Admin/

"Rules governing the use of University computer facilities",
	http://www.uow.edu.au/its/userguides/pdf/rules.pdf
