	The excerpt from the book, "Computer Confluence: Exploring Tomorrow's
Technology" written by George Beekman and Eugene J. Rathswohl, is a brief
description of the evolution of Computers from the Mainframe, through the
Personal Computer to thin clients and Internet appliances.

	The authors discuss the evolution from the Mainframe, with it's plethora
of terminals, after which computers scaled down to Minicomputers, where the
Client/Server model came in to play. High performance minicomputers, called
Workstations, also arrived to provide desktop power to the professional. Later
on, Portable Computers emerged, eschewing computing power for portability at
an increased cost compared to PCs. This miniaturisation led to the development
of Embedded Computers for Special Purposes in commodities, such as the ECU in
cars.

	These developments led to the rise of intra-personal computing through
the medium of Computer Networks during the transition from timeshare Mainframes.
In the beginning, networks consisted of individual LANs and WANs with no
connectivity between organisations. During this time, computers were still
seen as a workhorse, 'People saw computers as tools for doing calculations, ...
not as communication tools.' (Beekman & Rathswohl, 2003, p. 37), not as a
communications network.

	Then the Internet (ARPA net) was created, originally as a tool for
Academics and the US Government. Then, many years later, the WWW and e-mail
became popular forms of communication, which led to an explosion in the rate
of growth of people and organisations "on-line".

	This became such a powerful medium that the business world started to
model their information management systems around it, forming private
intranets to facilitate their usage.

	Major hardware vendors saw a market in creating "Thin Clients",
computers scaled down to utilise the advancing network topologies at a reduced
cost compared to that of a PC. Internet Appliances sprung in to the market to
service computing needs that don't need the power of a PC.

Bilbliography:

Beekman, G. & Rathswohl, E. J. 2003, Computer Confluence: Exploring Tomorrow's
Technology; IT Edition, Prentice Hall, New Jersey.
