
Critical Analysis of "2001: A Mars Odyssey" By Stephen Cass

Brief discussion of it's contents.

-	Odyssey Mars mission to "erase the memories of the failure of the last
	two NASA mission to [Mars]".

-	"The Odyssey's mission is to map the planets geology, paying particular
	attention to the role of water; both past and present."

-	To carry out it's mission the Odyssey will be equipped with an IR
	(THEMIS) and a gamma ray (GRS: NS & HEND) spectrometer.

-	THEMIS uses infrared spectrography to map the Martian surface of it's
	mineral content. The output is used to look for minerals associated
	with water.

-	THEMIS can also be used to aid the GS to create visual maps since it
	is capable of imaging in the visible wavelengths, as well as determining
	the suitability of possible future landing sites by measuring their
	Thermal Inertia.

-	GRS will be used to measure the atomic elemental composition of the
	Martian. In particular, it is capable of detecting the presence of
	Hydrogen atoms up to 1m below the surface as well as looking for
	Chlorine, which is another indication of water.

-	Marie, is an experiment not directly related to the search for water on
	Mars. It will map the radiation levels during the Odyssey mission for
	research regarding possible human missions to Mars and other deep space
	exploration.

-	The Odyssey was to be accompanied by a rover that was going to carry out
	experiments useful to the possible human exploration of Mars, but
	after the previous two Mars mission failures: MCO in 1999 and MPL in
	2000, it was shelved for future use.

-	JPL carried out extensive analysis of the missions parameters to define
	the mission critical ones to devote more resources to them.

-	Around the same time of JPL's analysis of the mission NASA assembled a
	"Red-Team" comprising of 50 aerospace industry experts to perform an
	independent evaluation of the mission.

	This led to design changes to ensure a greater margin for error and
	continuing the effort towards success.

-	NASA also changed its monetary attitude in regards to the Odyssey
	mission from cost conserving to achieving the mission objectives.

How well did the paper present it's arguments?

-	Good command of the English language.

-	The article was delivered for its intended audience of people with a
	grasp of technical details.

-	Concepts were explained in a concise and brief manner to ensure that
	they were understood for the purpose of the article.

	E.g: GRS & THEMIS

-	Graphics were used to show emphasis regarding certain points.

	E.g: The differing geological composition of the northern and southern
	hemispheres.

-	Quotations from the people who worked on the mission was used to explain
	various points.

	E.g: Dual measurement units in interface documents.

Conclusion:

	Stephen Cass shows the audience that the Mars Odyssey mission is well
on it's way to "erase memories of the failure of the last two NASA mission to
[Mars]".

	Or

	Stephen Cass shows that "Although the shadow of the recent failed NASA
missions to Mars looms over the Odyssey, the scientists and engineers have faith
in it the spacecraft and its mission."
