$Id: brief.txt 2 2007-07-19 13:00:48Z pdezwart $

	"2001: A Mars Odyssey" written by Stephen Cass, is an interesting
article to read. It attempts to show how NASA is preparing to launch another
mission to Mars. This time it is called "the Odyssey". Cass hopes to show that
the mission will [1] "erase the memories of the failure of the last two NASA
mission to [Mars]" and [1] "map the planet's geology, paying particular
attention to the role of water".

	The Odyssey will be mapping the mineral and atomic composition of the
surface of Mars to see where water may have flowed in the past. As liquid water
is not stable on the surface of Mars it would readily evaporate, leaving behind
all the minerals that had been absorbed.

	To carry out its mission the Odyssey will have a payload of two
experiments: the THermal EMission Imaging System (THEMIS) and the Gamma Ray
Spectrometer (GRS).

	THEMIS will use infrared spectrography to map the Martian surface of
its mineral content. The data collected will then be used to look for minerals
associated with water. It is also capable of imaging in the visible wavelengths
and will be used to aid the Global Surveyor (GS), another Mars orbiter, to
create visual maps of Mars. Another task of THEMIS is to determine the
suitability of possible future landing sites by measuring their Thermal Inertia.

	The GRS experiment is comprised of three instruments: [2] "a Gamma
subsystem, the Neutron spectrometer (NS), built by the Los Alamos National
Laboratory (LANL), and the High-Energy Neutron Detector (HEND), built by
Russia's Space Research Institute (IKI). GRS will be used to measure the atomic
composition of the Martian surface. In particular, it is capable of detecting
the presence of Hydrogen up to 1m below the surface. This may lead to the
discovery of underground flows of water.

	Evidence suggests that liquid water may exist in underground Aquifers,
covered with a layer of [1] "permafrost and kept liquid by the internal heat of
the planet". Life may exist in such bodies of water, thus the outflow of water
from these Aquifers need to be located, so they can be further studied.

	There is a third experiment on the Odyssey, the Mars Radiation
Environment Experiment (Marie), which is not directly related to the search for
water on Mars. It will map the radiation levels during the Odyssey mission. This
data will be used to make plans against the effects of radiation for human based
missions to Mars.

	The Odyssey orbiter was to be accompanied by a rover that was going to
carry out experiments similar to Marie on the plants surface for the human
exploration of Mars. After the previous two Mars mission failures: the Mars
Climate Observer (MCO) in 1999 and the Mars Polar Lander (MPL) in 2000, in an
effort to save resources, it was shelved for possible future use.

	In lieu of the above failures, NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratories (JPL)
carried out an extensive analysis of the Odyssey mission parameters to find out
which were mission critical, as to devote more resources to them. This would 
help to avoid catastrophes like the one that befell the MCO and MPL. Due to a
mismatch between SI and Imperial units of measurement, a navagational error
ensued aboard the MCO orbiter and it burned up in the Martian atmosphere.

	Around the same time of JPL's analysis of the mission NASA assembled a
"Red-Team" comprising of 50 aerospace industry experts to perform an
independent evaluation of the mission. This led to many design changes to
ensure a greater margin for error and continuing the effort towards the missions
success.

	NASA also changed its monetary stance in regards to the Odyssey
mission. It went from a frugal, cost conserving attitude towards one that better
suited achieving the mission objectives and minimising the potential for human
error.

	Cass shows an efficient command of the English language. [1] "Although
the shadow of the recent failed NASA missions to Mars looms over the Odyssey,
the scientists and engineers have faith in it the spacecraft and its mission."
Enabling him to deliver the purpose of the article to its intended audience.

	He also shows a detailed grasp of the technology and scientific
concepts used. They were explained in a concise and brief manner to ensure that
readers will understand enough about them for the purpose of the article. For
example, Cass explains how THEMIS works to map the Martian surface mineralogy,
also comparing it to the older Thermal Emissions Spectrometer (TES) currently
aboard the Mars Global Surveyor (MGS).

	The graphics in the article were used effectively to increase the
clarity of complex concepts. Especially when explaining the differing
geological compositions of the northern and southern hemispheres. Which had an
implication on how the surface of Mars may have been affected by water bodies
in the past.

	Quotations from the people who worked on the mission were used to
explain decisions and actions taken by NASA to ensure success. [1] "A headache
for Pace ... "in all our documentation where we have an interface between
systems, we've put both sets of units on there, so there's no mistake.""

	Stephen Cass has demonstrated that NASA is intently focused upon the
operational success of the Odyssey mission and the achievement of its
objectives.  Such that memories about the previous failures have a good chance
of being erased. Rather memories will be full of the exciting forays of JPL's
Odyssey in to the Martian geological territory and the quest for life through
the signs of water.

Bibliography:

[1]	Stephen Cass, '2001: A Mars Odyssey', IEEE Spectrum, Vol.38, No.4, April
	2001, pp 58-65.

[2]	GRS Instrumentation, http://grs.lpl.arizona.edu/instruments/
