
	Groups, either formed naturally or produced, will develop their own
behavioural regulators. This is usually achieved in the "storming" to "norming"
stages of a group and must be redeveloped if the groups composition changes.
The regulators that are developed can be generalised with the following titles: Roles, Norms and Status.

	Roles are the generalised expectations that the group has of any
particular member. That is, that each member is expected to perform a unique
task within the group. This is not to say that there may be duplicity in the
allocation of roles but that each member is expected to behave differently to
the rest of the group.

	There are many roles but there are two which are critical to the groups
existence: the Task leader and the Social leader. The Task leaders role is to
guide the groups efforts to achieve the groups goals. Where as the Social
leaders roles is to maintain the groups harmonics, keeping it at a state where
internal friction is kept to a level where it will not negatively influence the
groups productivity.

	Where Roles dictated the differences between the group members, Norms
are the set of behaviours that are expected from the entire group. For example,
in a gunpowder manufacturing plant, the workers and the foreman have distinct
roles that differ but they are all expected not to smoke on the job, for obvious
reasons.

	Once a member of the group displays behaviour "too far" from the norm,
the group will self-censor them. In the context of the previous example, if one
of the workers lit up a cigarette, a safety conscious member of the group may,
if equipment permits, decide to invoke the power of the fire extinguisher upon
the fumigating member.

	Status is the position or rank a member has in the group. The position
of the Task Leader will have a status attached to it. Status has two main
components, responsibility and renumeration. The higher the status, the higher
the responsibility and renumeration. For example, the Project Manager has the
hefty responsibility that the Project reaches completion with the deliverables
completed within the limitations stipulated in the design specification.

	Status also reflects the clout an individual has in the group, the
higher the status, the more force said member can exert to move the group in a
desired direction. This is a feedback mechanism, where individuals who are
singled out for their desirable characteristics are given a greater status.
Which, in turn, increases their influence on the rest of the group.

	Status also has the benefits of working conditions, generally, someone
with a high status will have associated symbols, a corner office with a plush
chair, a secretary, etc... Making their work more, pleasurable.

	These three regulators of group behaviour combine to form a powerful
guiding force to keep the direction of the group in a beneficial direction. It
also assists to keep the group together or maintain group cohesiveness.

	A state of group cohesion is met when all members exhibit a tendency to
adhere closely to the norms of the group. This has the effect of amplifying the
groups principal traits. For example, a tightly knit group of professional
programmers (oxymoron? alliteration Ed.) will be able to tackle difficult
programming projects, as opposed to a loosely formed group of undergrads
attempting to write out a debris like in appearance management report.

	In summary, the regulators of group behaviour aid the group to maintain
direction and cohesion. It then follows, with positive norms, that this group
will go far in achieving the tasks that it is appointed to.
